# Respiratory Disease Diagnosis and Management System (RDM)

## Project Description
The Respiratory Disease Diagnosis and Management System (RDM) is a comprehensive tool designed to diagnose respiratory diseases and manage patient treatment plans effectively. Utilizing advanced machine learning models, RDM offers highly accurate disease diagnosis and personalized medicine prescription recommendations.

### Disease Diagnosis Model
Our diagnosis model is built upon a curated dataset from the [Respiratory Sound Database](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/vbookshelf/respiratory-sound-database), which was augmented to address data bias and ensure balanced representation across various diseases. Through extensive experimentation with multiple architectures, we developed a neural network combining CNN, LSTM, and SeqSelfAttention layers, achieving an exceptional 99% accuracy.

## Medicine Prescription Model
The Medicine Prescription Model within the RDM system is engineered to forecast the most suitable medication, along with its dosage and frequency, taking into account the patient's age, gender, the diagnosed disease, and smoking status. This sophisticated multi-target prediction model leverages RandomForest classification to achieve an impressive average accuracy of 98%. The model thrives on a foundation of training data that was carefully constructed and refined through diligent research to ensure its relevance and efficacy in yielding improved outcomes.

### Data Generation and Disclaimer
It's important to note that the training data for the Medicine Prescription Model was not derived from actual patient records but was instead meticulously generated by the project's creator. This approach allowed for the creation of a balanced and comprehensive dataset tailored to the model's requirements. However, users should be aware that, due to the synthetic nature of the dataset, the model's recommendations should be considered as educational insights rather than clinical advice.

#### Disclaimer
The data used in the Medicine Prescription Model is entirely generated and does not represent real patient information. While the model demonstrates high accuracy, its predictions are based on synthesized data and should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the guidance of qualified health professionals regarding any medical condition or treatment.


## Features
- Highly accurate disease diagnosis leveraging advanced neural network models.
- Personalized medicine prescription recommendations.
- Comprehensive data augmentation and model training documentation available in Jupyter notebooks.

## Installation Instructions
To set up the RDM system, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/your-repo-name.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the repository directory:
   ```sh
    cd your-repo-name
     ```
3. Install the required dependencies:
   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
## Usage
To run the RDM Streamlit web app, execute the following command from the project directory:
```sh
streamlit run RDM_streamlit.py
```
Replace RDM_streamlit.py with the correct filename if different.


## Contributing
We welcome contributions to the RDM project. If you're interested in contributing, please review our contributing guidelines and feel free to submit pull requests.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

## Credits
This project was created by J-Abdullah. Special thanks to  the Respiratory Sound Database for providing the initial dataset for model training.